# KuKa scans from deep pits on glacier near Rothera research station

On the 7th of August Vishnu and I travelled to the glacier to perform a five-point "transect" with points 5m apart. The plan was to scan first with KuKa, then with the TLS, then digging "surface pits" to characterise the dielectric & density contrast across the air-snow interface. We scanned the five pits with KuKa, but then found that the tilt-meter on the TLS had become decalibrated on the way up, and the instrument wouldn't work. This happens with vibration sometimes, and it's easy to just recalibrate by going into the settings of the scanner. But being the first time it had decalibrated, we didn't know how to recalibrate so had to find some other science to do. We changed our plans to "pit digging", with the idea that we could compare the KuKa echograms which we had already taken to the snow stratigraphy. We began to dig what is described as Loc 1 in the geophysics spreadsheet, corresponding to deep_pit_1 on the github waveforms and made it 1m down before the weather started to close in. We took the density/dielectric measurements and headed down. So the geophysics are valid in terms of the echogram, but don't reach the "summer layer". The next day 8th August we went back to finish the job, assessing that we would only be able to dig and measure two pits over the day (which turned out to be correct). We decided to dig second pit of the transect (Loc 2 in the spreadsheet) to the summer layer, and then the final pit of the transect (Loc 3 in the spreadsheet) also to the summer layer. These correspond to deep_pit_2 & deep_pit_5 on the github. It would have been good to dig pits for all five of the KuKa scans, but we just didn't have the time given the weather and daylight hours at the time, which were short. So hopefully the two "full pits", loc 2 & loc 5 will be interesting. I believe that vishnu might have further geophysical information on the pits, probably including photographs of the pit walls.

Later that month (28th of August), we set out to repeat the exercise at another location on the glacier, ideally where the snow was less disturbed. Because we had more daylight, good weather, and the station leader helped us dig, we decided to go to the part of the glacier with the deepest snow, which turned out to be ~2.70m. This is referred to as deep_pit_0 on the github, and is tab 28082023 of the spreadsheet.
